It was just so obvious to me that there
was a unmet need in the world. You know,
I was evidence of that. I started to
voice that to my wife and friends.
[music]
>> So, you were like, I want beer for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner. How can we
make this happen?
>> Yeah.
This week on Bold Names, we've got Bill
Shufelt, the CEO and the co-founder of
Athletic Brewing. For those of you who
don't know, Athletic is a non-alcoholic
beer maker, which makes my 10 a.m. beer
drinking that much more respectable. For
the record, I already respected your 10
a.m. beer drinking. Bill is going to
talk to us about Gen Z and their
drinking habits, or lack thereof. He's
going to talk about the future of the
whole non-alcoholic brewing industry,
and he's going to talk to us about where
his company in particular is going.
>> Bill, welcome to the show. When you got
into this almost a decade ago, the
market for non-alcoholic beer was very
small. It was less than 1% of the
overall American beer market. Who did
you consider your competition back then?
>> The funny thing is I almost never
thought about non-alcoholic beer until I
was in the business of non-alcoholic
beer almost. I loved good beer, good
food, socializing with colleagues and
friends and family and never ever
thought about not drinking really or
needing non-alcoholic drinks. And I
assume a lot of people didn't. But as I
was turning 30, about to get married,
taking my career, my health, my sleep,
envisioning myself as a future parent,
all these things kind of laded up to
less drinking. And the category really
needed a whole reimagination on both
product and marketing. So I I would
actually say you could almost totally
restart the clock on the category
starting in 2018.
>> Now, there's a few statistics about how
far you've come that kind of really blow
my mind. Right. So, as of 2024, you're
the eighth largest craft brewer in the
US. You were valued at roughly $800
million. I'm just curious, you know, who
is your competition today? Because it
seems like the category's exploded.
>> Yeah. So, as as you said, we were one of
the smallest of the nation's brewers
when we launched in 20 2017 we were
founded. 2018, we launched. So, we went
from under 10 brands in the category to
over 200 brands in the non-alcoholic
beer category. There's over 150
different non-alcoholic craft beer
brands. Athletic Brewing is actually 52%
share of that category. So, we outsell
the whole rest combined. In that though,
yeah, this has gone from about 0.3% of
the beer market to 2% of the beer
market. But most of our national
retailers have started to pass four,
five, 6% of all beer is now
non-alcoholic beer. We had our first
national retailer pass 20% of all beer
this year. And I looked at that I was
like, "Wow, this is such an unmet
category. People are not drinking
alcohol 99% of the time they're awake."
>> Wait, I'm hearing a moment there.
Previously, people were not drinking
alcohol 99% of the time they're awake.
So, it sounds like you were like, "How
can I get people to drink beer the other
99% of the time?"
>> Well, it it hit me as such an intuitive
moment that people are not drinking
alcohol 99% of the time they're awake.
But the alcohol industry like treats
people as if 99% of the people are
drinking alcohol 99% of the time where I
saw this enormous TAM of normal modern
healthy adults.
>> TAM total addressable market.
>> Y
>> which I thought I was just like the
perfect average person poster child for
that new future market as health and
wellness really emerges. And it it was
just so obvious to me that there was a
unmet need in the world. And you know, I
was evidence of that. I started to voice
that to my wife and friends.
>> So, you were like, I want beer for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner. How can we
make this happen?
>> Yeah. And but in more seriousness
though, I wanted beer every day of the
week, but I didn't want to like miss my
morning workouts, feel groggy at work. I
didn't want like on the health side,
non-alcoholic beer tends to be 30% of
the alcohol equivalent styles calories.
So I wanted to be able to hit all my
goals, have all the fun, have all the
social connection without all the
sacrifice of it. So then I took it to
actual data. I was like, okay, is this
just me or is this a broader thing? And
my wife happened to be in business
school and guided me towards all these
different survey softwares. And I
started to just run actual surveys and
get data around this. And I found the
consumer base for non-alcoholic beer
wasn't 0.3% of people. It was actually
upwards of 50% of people almost no
matter how I asked the question. And so
then it was staring me in the face that
there was one of the biggest disconnects
and a category hiding in plain sight
where the industry was just not hearing
the consumer and or maybe the consumer
didn't yet know they wanted it also. And
then that's the lane I was hoping to
drive through.
>> It's interesting your wife's business
school experience. I I too studied a lot
of beer when I was in business school
but I didn't [laughter] have the same
kind of results. I'm curious, what were
your sales last year in 2025?
>> So, our our trailing sales in 2025, um,
you know, we we don't typically report
out as a private company, but um, I can
say our volumes were up about 24%
year-over-year versus 2024 in a
historically bad beer year. This is
probably the worst
>> alcoholic beer year of our lifetime. I
think I read the last time in 2024, you
did something like more than $130
million in sales. And that is pretty
exciting in a time when brewers your
size are really struggling, right?
According to the Brewers Association in
2024, more craft breweries closed then
opened for the first time in years. And
I I think here in San Francisco where
there's a lot of breweries and I'm
seeing a lot of favorites go away. Uh
Ankor Steam kind of the original craft
brewery uh out of business. Uh they got
purchased now. Maybe they'll come back.
We don't know. Why are you growing when
others aren't?
>> Yeah. And I'm optimistic for Ankor. I I
hope they've landed in a good spot. I I
care so much about the industry and in
general social connection um as to like
why we're seceding and others maybe
aren't or maybe there's consolidation or
plateauing before the next leg in the
alcoholic industry. I I think it does
come back to like a shifting of
generational trends perhaps. And I like
I'm not certainly not here to ever stand
on a prohibition soapbox. I don't think
a 5,000-year trend of drinking beer is
going away. But what I do think is it
looks like moderation is just coming out
of nowhere because moderation was
totally inaccessible 10 years ago. You
couldn't go to a bar and restaurant and
get a great delicious socially
acceptable beverage. And all of a sudden
now you have a generation turning 21 who
doesn't know what those stigmas of the
past 80 years have looked like. They
just look at a menu and athletics on
over 20% of Michelin star restaurants in
this country. So you have the best chefs
in the country saying this is a really
good beer and that really like so you
have a generation who there's no stigma
about making this choice. They're
presented proudly on menus. It's widely
available. And then you also have the
health and wellness perception. We saw
in Gallup data over the summer that for
the first time ever over a majority of
US Americans view drinking one or two
alcoholic drinks a day is unhealthy.
>> Yeah. I got to say I was recently at a
uh like a social event where you know
the kids were with babysitters. Everyone
was there intentionally to connect with
one another. You know multiple tables in
a ballroom and I looked around and maybe
half the people there were toasting with
water and I was like this is nuts. Like
this is such a departure from where we
were. But one thing you're not
addressing though is there also isn't
there also a generational trend for Gen
Z to just get together less? I mean, is
some of this just the fact that Jenz's
taking fewer risks, socializing less,
getting out less? And isn't that a
counter trend that potentially endangers
your product long term?
Well, I I think tying back to social
connection, it's I I think a lot of
recent data is skewed by COVID and like
like a one-time 3 to 5 year impact
there. I totally feel for this
generation that missed a lot of college
is maybe missing out on some of the
mentorship and work happy hours that,
you know, my generation had such easy
access to.
>> Yeah. Work happy hour is dead according
to the Wall Street Journal.
>> Yeah. And then there's like different
socioeconomic pressures. Like I I lived
above a bar in New York City for two
years and I knew I could get dollar
graphs at
>> heaven. [laughter]
>> But um
>> that would have ended Tim's career.
>> More on the economic side like a pint
was so affordable and accessible that it
wouldn't be a budget. So um
>> cheap wings and beer, right?
>> Yeah. But what we are seeing is as we
get a little farther out from CO, we're
starting to see a little more of those
trends normalize. People love to get out
in the world looking for that
connection. They're finding it in new
ways. We're seeing run clubs, sauna
clubs, cold plunges at different things
like morning gettogethers. But Athletic
is really trying to drive support for
the bar and restaurant industry as well.
And I I think people are saving those
dollars in tight socioeconomic times for
those experiences. And those are meals,
live music, venues, sports. And so
people may be getting together in
different ways also, but we're here to
add to those occasions, not take away.
And like putting that to words
differently, almost all bevalk
innovation over the past 50 years is
like a one forone substitution. It is
the same customer, same occasion, and
just trying to them to get them to drink
a different product in that
>> selzer or hard seltzer or liquor or
whatever. Right.
>> Yeah. You've seen like hard seltzer and
spirit RTDs come for like the light beer
market,
>> right?
>> And what athletic has brought is new
consumers, consumers who are
>> Yeah. new occasions, new consumers, new
rounds, and bring more people to the
table. So, we are like pure industry
growth for both the off- premise and on
premise. I think that's really exciting
for the world. I was talking to a friend
the other day who because of health
reasons was feeling like maybe he should
cut back on drinking alcohol and but he
still wants to go to the bars, right?
And so he sees it as a maybe he'll have
an alcohol beer and then a non-alcohol
beer, right? And kind of that and I
think you all have talked about kind of
the the market being a chaser, a pacer,
and a replacer, right?
>> Yeah. Zebra striping and pacers,
chasers, replacers. I hear all these
things from bartenders in urban areas,
especially with younger audiences.
>> Absolutely. What one of the things I I
you know when I drink uh Run Wild, it
really it does taste like an IPA. And I
think one of the things that you're kind
of tapping into is that nostalgic for
that taste. But I wonder if young people
haven't built up a taste for beer or
don't have a tradition of drinking beer.
How does that appeal to young people?
They don't even know about IPAs really,
do they? I I was talking to a a young u
person the other day, one of the youths,
if you will, and she was like, "H IPAs,
you know, she was like really shocked at
what they tasted like." I mean, it is an
acquired taste, I think.
>> Yeah. And that's something we we hear a
lot and it's a question we get. Um, but
I think one of the most interesting
things is like there's like a reference
point to alcohol in that. And with
Athletic, we are a standalone
non-alcoholic beer brand. We don't have
a reference brand we have to try to
mimic the taste of. We don't have that
burden or responsibility. We just use
these extremely highquality ingredients
and we craft them to be most expressive
and the best combination of flavor we
can. And in many ways we're like
unburdened by that. And one of the
funniest things is when I hear people
say, "Oh, I don't like the taste of
beer." In most beers, alcohol is the
predominant caloric density of that
beverage and the flavor. And one of the
ingredients people don't like the most
about beer is actually just the alcohol.
And a lot of people do like athletic who
don't like the taste of beer. And we've
seen that over and over again.
>> I just uh popped open uh your Mexican
style. You you call it Mexican style
copper. I think that's because you can't
call it a logger, right?
>> For sure. Yeah. There's a whole range of
words we can't use per the TTB.
actual alcohol beer, right?
>> Yeah. A lot of them have a threshold um
alcohol content. Um but you know, most
CPG brands are born out of
>> consumer package goods for those who
aren't in the industry.
>> Sorry, I'm on a real roll with the
abbreviations.
>> I what I'm going to do is take a shot of
beer every time you use one of those
words. [laughter] Keep going. Well,
while I'm kneede in the industry, I
could say so most innovation in the CPG
or beverage world comes out of companies
looking to hit quarterly earnings, drive
results, and it's like focus group
generated. What's different about
Athletic is we didn't start with that
burden. We started with passion, with
authenticity. We started from the ground
up trying to create something that is
literally going to be a like a
changemaking
uh beverage. And we really set out to
change the way the world drinks, change
expectations for what non-alcoholic beer
could be. And that gave us like a total
freedom for those expectations.
>> That that said though, you don't have
like the brand recogn like you don't
have a show on Netflix right now which
is about the genesis of your brand for
you know House of Guinness for those who
haven't seen it.
>> Yeah.
>> Guinness is doing non-alcoholic beer.
Heineken. Uh you have these extremely
large mainstream
uh com competitors with incredible
brands. I mean we've seen this many
times before in CPG but in tech also
where you will have a pioneer that
ironically gets eclipsed by the fast
following giant right Apple's a master
of this. So what kind of threat do they
represent? Right? I mean, are you going
to potentially get eclipsed by these
brands who have that brand recognition
because they can just come in and be
like, "Oh, this is a category. Fine,
we'll do that."
>> Yeah, I totally fair. And that's the
advice my dad gave me too when I was
about to quit a great finance job to go
into this. He was basically he gave me
the version of like what if Google does
it like and I
>> what if Google releases a non-alcoholic
beer?
>> Yeah. And in many ways we are finding
that out like in the past five years
that so we started ex really scrappy
like very underresourced and you know it
was all us with our horsepower on
everything we did and we made the
absolute best quality beer we could. We
saw basically at that same time Heineken
one of the world's biggest global
brewers launched with their Heineken 00
and has done a great job with that
marketing it and helping build the
category.
Since then, we've seen basically every
major beer brand in the world, every
major craft beer launch into this
category over the years. And we're
driving a lion share of the growth year
in year out. And I think that comes
through the authenticity, the dedication
to the quality of the product. And
consumers these days also love to know
who's like who and what is behind the
products I'm drinking. And I think that
kind of all comes together with like a
really passionate authentic story.
>> How are you handling the broader
economic policies like tariffs? uh some
of your competitors out there like
Constellation Brands for example which
owns Corona and Modello they took a hit
last year in part because of terrace on
aluminum a key ingredient in those cans.
>> I mean Athletic we we've been in
business seven or eight years and I
think we've seen six economic cycles
since then including COVID and I would
say one of the hardest decisions we ever
made as a company which turned off a lot
of investors. We were going to build our
own manufacturing and do everything
ourselves with full-time athletic
teammates and put the steel in the
ground ourselves rather than outsource
where most CPG and beverage outsources
to contract manufacturing which is
almost infinitely scalable. it's very
rapid
and so we took a punitive economic
approach to that but that was in 2018
but that's turned out to be very lucky
not only from a quality standpoint we
own every piece of our quality and can
just keep reinvesting in our own quality
but when co hit we were operating all
our own breweries and we controlled so
much more of our supply chain and
operations than most companies and then
we've doubled down on that decision now
four times we just finished building our
fourth brewery in the in San Diego go.
Um, and similar to CO in the in the
tariff situation, we have a much more
like onshore domestic athleticrun supply
chain than most CPG companies. So, um,
that has turned out to be the right
decision over and over again. Where it's
the wrong decision is when you're
growing 200 300% a year and your
financial models model the brewery as if
you're operating at full utilization,
but then you really blow through that
utilization and need the new brewery
almost immediately.
>> Yeah. You know, it's interesting. I
mean, you started off, I think, were
helped by the fact you were
non-alcoholic. You could do direct to
consumer mail. People could get it
through the mail easier than perhaps uh
alcoholic uh beverages. um really did
well with Whole Foods. Getting into that
market, I think helped you uh start to
build an audience. And but you're also
doing some marketing things that I think
are typical of beer companies. We're
accustomed to seeing beer brands,
sponsoring um you know, baseball teams
or soccer teams, and you're there. You
you've got deals with uh 100 Live
Nations, so your concerts, the Seattle
Mariners. You also see you partnering
with stuff like the Iron Man, the
endurance race until 2028. So, help me
understand there. What's what's your
branding position there? Are you a
traditional beer kind of marketing or
are you an athletic drink? Are you going
to be the next Gatorade or Prime or
something like that?
>> I I think we take notes from a lot of
different directions, but I I I think
mostly from from the start, I tried to
think about marketing authentically to
who we were as a company and who we were
trying to reach. And then with extremely
limited resources, we started with the
most influential dollars we could, which
to me was elite endurance athletes. And
so we teamed up with Iron Man and
Spartan.
>> Why is that? I mean, because anybody
that's done a race, there's traditional
tradition to have a beer at the end, I
guess, right?
>> Yeah. And then, well, I was also
thinking about this trend being the
future of health and wellness, like a
big part of that. And so as people look
for health and wellness guidance, life
hacks and stuff, they look to these
elite athletes and top performers and
fitness influencers. And I thought in
limited resources, we'd love to start
there with our marketing dollars, but
then also sampling, talking to people
face to face because no one was visiting
the non-alcoholic beer shelf. Like we
had to go find those people in the world
and bring them back to the non-alcoholic
beer shelf. So, I was looking for people
who are happy, sweaty, thirsty that I
could put a thousand cans in the hands
of on any given weekend.
>> That's why the name athletic brewery is
that
>> well the name actually is
it just meant to be like generally
positive, aspirational. I thought
athletic was a nice positive word that
fit my lifestyle but also would resonate
in with a lot of different people in a
lot of different areas. And I thought it
was about as broad and positive a tent
as you could put up.
>> So, take me into the future. You said I,
you know, I don't think we're going to
upend this 5,000-year trend of drinking
beer. But I just want to point out that
others have upended that trend in the
past, right? Like, you know, there was a
long period when everyone in Europe uh
especially the French obviously wanted
to drink wine instead of beer because it
was classier. So, these shifts do happen
like on a civilization scale. So, take
us into the future. Like, are you
envisioning a future where, you know, we
all live to 200 cuz none of us drink or
smoke or or suck on Zen pouches? Where
are we going? Where do you want to go?
>> I think there's a lot of micro trends in
beverage and CPG. They're these fly by
night celebrity brands. They have
one-year successes in all sorts of
different categories and come and go.
And we're in such an attention economy.
And what we've always tried to do is
create a we think we're on the emergence
of an enormous mega trend that's going
to take a very long time to play out
similar to maybe like the energy drink
category or something like that. And it
was this new modern lifestyle fit that
was needed apparently. As I look at the
beer industry analog of that going back
50 years, you had basically logger beer
in America and it was very few breweries
and then light beer emerged and why
light beer was so popular was because it
met the nutritional preferences of that
next generation and light beer was one
of the biggest we've ever seen in beer
>> to the light beer age.
>> But coming right on the tales of that,
people wanted the flavor though. They
didn't just want the nutritionals and
light beer, you know, has been declining
for the last 25 years cuz it doesn't
really meet those flavor expectations.
>> Yeah. Good riddens.
>> So, you see different categories come
for the flavor and you see artisal craft
brewers bring more flavor and more
styles. You see the flavored RTDs and
beverages like that. Where I see
non-alcoholic beer coming in here is the
confluence of the light beer
nutritionals and the flavor of the more
recent trends into one enormous big new
trend that can meet both of those
preferences and really aligns with
modern health preferences. And that's an
enormous marketing responsibility on us.
It's a quality responsibility. We we
can't say those things and then not
deliver on it. So we we focus
relentlessly on the resources to deliver
on quality and we're working on
educating the next generation of
consumers to evolve the culture with us.
But if we can meet there and deliver,
you know, we've won 185 global taste
awards now. This is going to be a really
big trend. It's just going to take a
time to play out.
>> You're getting me thirsty, Bill. Thanks
for coming on the show. It's great
talking to you.
>> Thank you so much. It's an honor. Had a
lot of fun.
>> [music]